add mnemonics section (#83)
monero-project/monero-docs: docs/en/mnemonics/legacy.md

---
title: Legacy Mnemonic Scheme
---

The legacy mnemonic scheme is the oldest and most widely-used mnemonic scheme in the Monero ecosystem. It comprises a total of 25 words, where the first 24 words are for the seed and the last word is for the checksum. The checksum word is used to verify the correctness of the seed.

> The first 24 words are randomly selected from a list of 1626 words described in the [Monero source code](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/mnemonics/english.h) (There are many other wordlists available for different languages, which you can find [in the Monero source code](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/tree/master/src/mnemonics) available for the legacy mnemonic scheme). The checksum word is selected by calculating the [CRC32 checksum index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclic_redundancy_check) of a string that is made by concatenating the first `prefix_length`ed characters of each selected word. The `prefix_length` is the number of characters to be used from each word to calculate the checksum. [In the case of English wordlist, the `prefix_length` is 3](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/mnemonics/english.h#L52C47-L52C48).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first 24 words are randomly selected from a list of 1626 words described in [`src/mnemonics/english.h`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/mnemonics/english.h) (Wordlists available for other languages can be found in [`src/mnemonics`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/tree/master/src/mnemonics)). The checksum word is selected by calculating the [CRC32 checksum index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclic_redundancy_check) of a string that is made by concatenating the first `prefix_length`ed characters of each selected word. The `prefix_length` is the number of characters to be used from each word to calculate the checksum. [In the case of English wordlist, the `prefix_length` is 3](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/mnemonics/english.h#L52C47-L52C48).
```
